3 Regular Expressions

Regular expressions are so called because they are used to identify regular strings; that is,
they can definitively say, “Yes, this string you’ve given me follows the rules, and I’ll
return it,” or “This string does not follow the rules, and I’ll discard it.” This can be
exceptionally handy for quickly scanning large documents to look for strings that look like
phone numbers or email addresses.

Notice that I used the phrase regular string. What is a regular string? It’s any string that
can be generated by a series of linear rules, 3 such as:
1. Write the letter “a” at least once.
2. Append to this the letter “b” exactly five times.
3. Append to this the letter “c” any even number of times.
4. Optionally, write the letter “d” at the end.
Strings that follow these rules are: “aaaabbbbbccccd,” “aabbbbbcc,” and so on (there are
an infinite number of variations).
Regular expressions are merely a shorthand way of expressing these sets of rules. For
instance, here’s the regular expression for the series of steps just described:
aa*bbbbb(cc)*(d | )

aa*
The letter a is written, followed by a* (read as a star) which means “any number of
a’s, including 0 of them.” In this way, we can guarantee that the letter a is written at
least once.
bbbbb
No special effects here — just five b’s in a row.
(cc)*
Any even number of things can be grouped into pairs, so in order to enforce this rule
about even things, you can write two c’s, surround them in parentheses, and write an
asterisk after it, meaning that you can have any number of pairs of c’s (note that this
can mean 0 pairs, as well).
(d | )
Adding a bar in the middle of two expressions means that it can be “this thing or that
thing.” In this case, we are saying “add a d followed by a space or just add a space
without a d.” In this way we can guarantee that there is, at most, one d, followed by a
space, completing the string.

# 得多看多练
Experimenting with RegEx
When learning how to write regular expressions, it’s critical to play around with them and get a feel for how
they work.


